[MUSIC]
From regular stand-ups to debugging,
front-end developers must perform
various tasks to bring websites to life!
In this video,
we will identify essential tasks and
their roles in front-end development.
The core task of a front-end
developer is writing code, but
writing good code requires collaboration
with other members of the team.
Let's explore how tasks like stand-ups and
code reviews can help a front-end
developer collaborate with
others to write better code.
Stand-ups are short, daily meetings where
the team members update each other
on their progress and obstacles.
Stand-ups are vital because they keep
the team aligned in the project and
increase team awareness.
They also promote transparency and
accountability among team members.
Daily stand-ups also allow
team members to raise issues,
helping to keep the project on track.
Stand-ups are useful for
making sure you're regularly
interacting with your team.
It's a part of how web application
developers work with others to keep
the production of
the website moving forward.
Stand-ups are great for
fostering regular communication, but
the work gets done when the team
is working collaboratively.
Let's explore how development
depends on collaboration.
The front-end of a web application has
many components that require a diverse set
of skills to develop.
Graphic designers create the visuals,
data engineers create the data model and
storage components,
web developers write the code and
implement the graphic designer's visuals,
and marketing and sales strategists
influence the application's features by
being the voice of the customer.
All of these roles need to work
together to make a unified product.
Collaboration when building a front-end
web application means working closely with
designers, back-end developers and
other team members.
Designers and
developers share their work and
use shared design tools like
Figma to keep things consistent.
Using systems like GitHub helps
the team share code changes and
keep everyone up to date.
Regular code checks ensure quality.
When a team works collaboratively, they
use the expertise of each discipline to
solve problems, and they incorporate
user feedback to improve the product.
Working together in this way ensures
the final product is well-made and
meets everyone's needs.
Effective collaboration ensures
that the design, functionality, and
user experience are all aligned and
optimized.
For example, a designer might create a
design in Figma and share it with the web
developer, who uses the information in the
Figma file to create the user interface.
This type of collaboration helps the team
align the design with what the user will
experience.
The web development team must collaborate
extensively to move from a visual
design to code.
That's where code reviews come in.
Code reviews help you improve
the quality of the code you write.
Code reviews are evaluations
of code by other developers to
ensure it meets the quality standards and
adheres to best practices.
This collaborative process
helps catch errors and
improve the overall
quality of the codebase.
Code reviews help developers improve and
maintain code quality, reduce bugs, and
facilitate knowledge
sharing among team members.
For example, you might discover a more
efficient way to write a piece of code
during a code review, which can
then be applied across the project.
Now that we've covered collaborative
meetings in which developers participate,
let's explore how developers
manage their code changes.
This is called "source control".
Effective source control is
key to a smooth workflow.
Source control is
the practice of managing and
tracking changes to code
using tools like GitHub.
Managing code using source control tools
helps teams coordinate work among multiple
developers and
maintain a history of changes.
Source control helps prevent conflicts
when multiple developers work on
the same project by keeping track of all
changes each of them makes.
Source control can manage changes
to one file by multiple developers.
Source control tools also maintain
a history of all the changes, so
if someone makes a mistake, you can easily
go back to a previous version of the code.
Developers use GitHub and similar tools
to manage and track code changes.
Imagine this case,
you've added a new front-end feature, but
it causes an unexpected problem.
With source control, you can quickly return
to the version before the feature was
added, allowing you to fix the issue
without having to start from scratch.
Managing source control sets the stage for
the next task: Merging code.
Let's learn how front-end
developers integrate their changes
into the main codebase.
When developers use source control to
merge code, they integrate changes from
different branches or
versions into the main codebase.
After the code is merged,
all contributions from the team
are combined seamlessly.
Merging code helps developers by
integrating updates into the project.
As a developer working on different parts
of the front-end, you'll spend time at
the beginning or end of each day
merging everyone's contributions.
Merging also helps developers
prevent code conflicts.
If two developers work on the same code,
conflicts can occur, but
managing work items and proper merging
practices can prevent conflicts.
Developers combine their individual
changes into the main project so
all updates are included.
This practice helps front-end
developers maintain a unified and
up-to-date codebase.
Merging code keeps all
developers' daily work in sync, so
they can spend more of their
time writing and debugging code.
Next, let's explore this
task in more detail.
When developing a front-end for
a web application,
some developers use three primary
technologies or languages.
First, Hyper Text Markup Language, or
HTML, is used as the coding language to
create standard user interface elements,
like buttons, backgrounds, and text.
Next, developers use another technology
called Cascading Style Sheets or
CSS to modify the visual attributes
of the elements like color,
rounded corners, and specific fonts.
Finally, JavaScript is used to
make the front-end interactive.
Developers use these three technologies
together to create appealing,
dynamic application front ends.
For example, if a developer wants to
create a button that adds items to a cart
in a web application,
they'll use HTML to create a simple
button on the user interface.
If they want the button to appear blue
with a Sans serif font with the words
"Add to cart" on it,
they'll use CSS to style it.
Finally, they write JavaScript code that
responds when a user selects the button on
the page.
Web developers work to write clean,
efficient code and catch and
fix any issues as they're writing.
However, even the most careful
developers won't find every problem.
They must continually check for
new issues called bugs.
Let's examine how developers handle
this through regular bug checks.
Checking for bugs, or
debugging code, involves testing
the website to identify any issues
that need to be fixed before the web
application is made available to users.
This process verifies that the website
works properly and doesn't produce errors.
By debugging their code, developers ensure
that users have a stable, secure, and
productive experience
with their application.
A web application that is as close to bug-
free as possible gives the users the best
experience.
Developers regularly test their
code to identify and fix new bugs,
which helps maintain
a smooth user experience.
By continuously testing,
you can ensure that new updates
don't introduce new problems.
In this video, you learned to identify
key tasks in front-end development,
including attending stand-ups,
participating in code reviews,
managing source control,
merging code from GitHub,
writing and debugging code,
and checking for new bugs.
We also explored how our web developers
create a seamless user experience through
close collaboration with designers and
developers.
By working collaboratively
with their team and
following a disciplined
approach to development,
web developers can build speedy, secure
applications that delight their users.
[MUSIC]